The Rift (3s)

They studied side by side in younger days, (1s)
two students bent over the same ancient tome, (1s)
learning to shape the light in different ways, (1s)
two branches growing from a single home. (3s)

One sought to heal, to mend, to understand, (1s)
to use their gifts for protection and for grace, (1s)
while the other craved a more commanding hand, (1s)
power that could put everything in place. (3s)

The rift began so small you'd hardly see, (1s)
a disagreement over means and ends, (1s)
a question of what magic ought to be, (1s)
a widening gap between two former friends. (3s)

One turned to shadows, (1s)
shortcuts through the dark, (1s)
convinced that only strength could set things right, (1s)
that mercy was a weakness, love a mark (1s)
of those too timid to embrace their might. (3s)

The other held to slower, harder roads, (1s)
to healing that takes time, to patient ways, (1s)
carrying their careful, lighter loads, (1s)
watching their old companion's darker days. (3s)

And yet, in quiet moments, truth appears (1s)
the light one sees themselves in shadow's face, (1s)
recognizes in their old friend's fears (1s)
the same temptations they once had to face. (3s)

The pull toward power, toward control, toward force, (1s)
the desire to make the world behave, obey, (1s)
to shortcut suffering, to change its course (1s)
these whispers visit everyone someday. (3s)

How thin the line between conviction's fire (1s)
and the corruption that consumes from within, (1s)
between standing firm and sinking in the mire, (1s)
between necessary strength and grievous sin. (3s)

They stand opposed now, light and dark arrayed, (1s)
but both remember sitting side by side, (1s)
both carry scars from choices that they made, (1s)
both lost something precious to their pride. (3s)

The hardest truth to face is not the fight, (1s)
but recognizing in your enemy (1s)
the paths you could have taken, left or right, (1s)
the person you were frightened you might be. (3s)

Perhaps we all contain both light and shade, (1s)
perhaps the choice is made a thousand times, (1s)
in small decisions, daily, unafraid, (1s)
the slow accumulation of our crimes. (3s)

They face each other now across the rift, (1s)
two students of the same old ancient art, (1s)
divided by philosophy and gift, (1s)
united by the breaking of one heart. (3s)
