# CHAPTER 1: WAKING

## Beat 1: Hibernation Wake-Up

The pod opened with a hiss like an apology.

Chen's awareness returned in fragments—breath first, then weight, then the bright pain of light against closed eyelids. Her body felt like lead. Every muscle ached with the particular hollow heaviness of prolonged hibernation. Her mouth tasted like rust and old metal.

You are Commander Lian Chen. You are aboard the MSCS *Goliath*. The journey is complete. You have a job to do.

She opened her eyes. The med bay ceiling was white composite, too bright. Overhead lights cycled through their wake sequence—dim red to amber to harsh white. Somewhere to her left, another pod hissed open. Footsteps. Volkov's voice, rough with disuse: "Blyat. Every time."

Chen sat up slowly. Her inner ear protested the movement. Nausea rolled through her gut, peaked, settled. Normal. All normal. She had done this before. Hibernation was never comfortable, but the human body adapted. Six months compressed to nothing. A necessary discomfort.

Except.

Something felt wrong. Not physically wrong—the same wrongness as always, the body's protest at being frozen and thawed like cheap protein. But something else. Something in the back of her mind, like a dream that had not quite faded. Like hearing voices in the next room, muffled, just below comprehension.

She pushed the thought away. Focus. Protocol. Status check.

---

Volkov's hands shook as he gripped the edge of his pod. Fifteen years of salvage work and the wake-up never got easier. His mouth felt like he had been chewing on battery terminals. His vision swam. Everything too bright, too sharp.

He forced himself to stand. Knees protested. Balance systems lagged. He grabbed the support rail, waited for the world to stop spinning.

"Systems check," Chen's voice, clipped and professional. Already up. Already focused. Volkov admired that. You did not survive this work without discipline.

"Da, da. Give me... minute." His voice came out as gravel.

He ran through mental diagnostics while his body caught up. Ship systems. Fusion core. Life support. Hibernation bay. All green, probably. He would need to check manually. HERMES was reliable but not perfect. Automation only got you so far. Everything critical, you checked yourself.

His head ached. Not unusual. But there was something else. A sense of... presence? No. Wrong word. Absence of absence. Like being alone in a room and suddenly realizing you had been talking to someone without remembering who.

Nonsense. Hibernation fog. Neural static from six months' induced unconsciousness. He had experienced it before. It would fade.

Except it did not feel like it was fading.

---

Amara's pod unsealed and she gasped, pulling air into lungs that felt like leather. Too dry. Everything too dry. Her skin, her throat, her eyes. The bright lights made her wince.

Subject: Dr. Amara Osei. Status: Conscious. Vitals appear stable. Hibernation wake sequence proceeding nominally.

No. Not "subject." Amara. You are Amara. You are the medic. You need to check the others.

She sat up carefully. Clinical training took over. Assess yourself before assessing others. Deep breath. Heart rate elevated but within acceptable parameters. Muscle weakness, expected. Mild nausea, expected. Dry mouth, expected. All symptoms consistent with prolonged hibernation.

Then why did something feel so profoundly wrong?

She looked at her hands. Same hands. Same dark skin, same calluses, same slight tremor from muscle atrophy. Nothing visibly wrong. But the sensation persisted—not dread, exactly. More like... missing something. A word on the tip of her tongue. A memory just out of reach.

No. Not a memory. Memories plural. Many memories. Many voices.

She shook her head sharply. Hibernation side effects. Neural inflammation from induced stasis. Temporary disorientation. She had studied this. She knew the pathology. It would resolve within forty-eight hours.

"Medic, status?" Chen's voice cut through the fog.

"Status is..." Amara paused. When had she last spoken? Six months ago? "Status is good. I'm good. Running self-assessment now."

Good. Professional. Clinical. She could do this.

---

Jordan's first conscious thought was: I wasn't alone.

The second was: I am now.

Neither made sense. The hibernation pod was single-occupancy. You went in alone, you woke alone. That was the design. But the sensation persisted—a bone-deep certainty that they had not been solitary during the long dark. That someone, or several someones, had been there. Present. Connected.

"Kim, you functional?" Chen's voice.

"Yeah. Yeah, I'm... I'm good." Jordan pushed upright, slower than they wanted. Everything ached. Normal hibernation stuff. They had done shorter runs before, never six months straight, but the principle was the same. Your body hated you for a few days, then adapted.

They swung their legs out of the pod, feet finding the deck plating. Cold metal against bare skin. Real. Solid. Present.

So why did reality feel slightly negotiable?

Stop it. You're awake. You're on the *Goliath*. You're approaching Tantalus V. Mission ahead. Work to do.

Jordan stood, steadied themselves against the pod's frame. Around the med bay, the rest of the crew was going through similar wake-up routines. Chen already moving, checking systems. Volkov muttering in Russian, hands on the wall. Amara sitting on the edge of her pod, running self-diagnostics with clinical detachment.

And Reeves—

Jordan looked at Reeves' pod. Sealed. The wake sequence indicator showed amber: unsealing in progress.

They watched as the pod hissed open. Reeves lay still for three seconds, then jerked upright like someone pulled by strings. His eyes opened wide. For just a moment, Jordan thought they saw something in his expression. Recognition, maybe. Or fear.

Then Reeves blinked, and the moment passed.

"Bloody hell," Reeves croaked. "That never gets pleasant, does it?"

"No," Jordan said. "Never does."

But pleasant wasn't the word bouncing around their head. Wrong was. Something was wrong.

Probably nothing. Probably just hibernation fog.

Right?

---

Reeves sat in his pod for ten seconds longer than necessary, cataloging sensations.

One: His body hurt. Standard.

Two: His mind felt muddy, thoughts moving through syrup. Standard.

Three: He remembered things he should not remember. Not standard.

Dreams, technically. Except hibernation was supposed to be dreamless. Neural activity suppressed. Consciousness suspended. That was the entire point. You did not dream through six months of frozen dark.

So why did he remember dreaming?

Not images, exactly. Sensations. Being more than one person. Being five people. Being a vast network of awareness that extended beyond his skull, beyond the ship, beyond individual identity. Being alone and not-alone simultaneously. Being...

Being We.

Reeves pushed the thought away with clinical precision. Academic training helped. Break down the problem. Analyze the variables. Hibernation-induced hypnagogia. Neural misfiring during the wake sequence. False memory construction. Explainable. Rational. Nothing that indicated actual neural compromise.

"Reeves, stop wool-gathering and get moving." Chen's voice held the particular edge that meant she was compensating for her own discomfort with command presence. Reeves recognized it because he used similar strategies himself.

"Apologies, Commander. Merely taking inventory." He stood, smooth despite the muscle weakness. Present confidence even if you do not feel it. Basic survival strategy.

Around him, the crew completed their wake-up protocols. Five people, five pods, five individuals. Separate. Discrete. As it should be.

So why did some part of him insist that boundaries were negotiable? That separation was illusion? That underneath the skin and skull, they were still—

No.

Reeves shut down the thought with practiced efficiency. He had a job to do. Salvage assessment. Value calculations. Survival. Everything else was noise.

But the noise did not stop. It just moved deeper, settling into the space between thoughts like static on a dead channel.

---

Chen stood in the center of the med bay and watched her crew complete their wake protocols. Five people. All conscious. All moving. Preliminary assessment: nominal.

You did not trust preliminary assessments. You verified.

"Sound off. Volkov?"

"Functional. Running system checks in ten."

"Osei?"

"Functional. Will run medical screenings once I'm steadier."

"Kim?"

"All good, Commander. Ready when you are."

"Reeves?"

"Functional and deeply regretting my career choices, but that is standard operating procedure."

Chen's mouth twitched. Almost a smile. Close enough. "Good. We proceed with mission protocols. Volkov, I want a full ship systems diagnostic. Osei, medical screenings for all crew once you can stand without assistance. Kim, prep for orbital approach. Reeves, get me preliminary salvage assessment parameters."

"Aye, Commander," four voices, nearly synchronized.

Not quite in unison. But close. Too close?

Chen shook off the thought. You are tired. You are disoriented. You have work to do.

She turned toward the med bay exit, already running through mission checklists. Forty-eight hours planetside. Quick assessment. Document and extract. Minimize exposure. Then six months home.

Simple. Clean. Survivable.

Behind her, the hibernation pods stood open like empty cocoons. The neural monitoring systems had already logged their data, filed their reports, flagged their anomalies.

No one had checked the reports yet.

---------------------------

## Beat 2: The Disturbed Dreams Discussion

The mess hall smelled like recycled air and protein rations. Jordan sat at the bolted-down table, forcing down reconstituted eggs that tasted like cardboard. Not great, but not terrible. Standard ship food. They had eaten worse.

Across the table, Amara pushed her food around her plate without eating. Volkov had already finished his portion and was working on a second, methodical chewing like it was a maintenance task. Reeves picked at a protein bar with academic disdain, occasionally taking small bites. Chen ate efficiently, gaze distant, already running through mission protocols.

Jordan waited until Chen paused between bites. "Did anyone else have weird dreams?"

The question landed in the middle of the table like dropped cargo.

Chen looked up. "Hibernation is supposed to suppress REM sleep. You should not have dreamed."

"Yeah, I know. But I did. I think I did?" Jordan glanced around. "Anyone else?"

Silence. Three seconds that felt longer.

Then Volkov made a noise—half laugh, half grunt. "Thought was just me. Thought I was losing it. Da, I dreamed."

"I did as well," Reeves said slowly. He set down the protein bar. "Rather vivid, actually. Which is notable, given the neural suppression protocols."

Amara's hand had stopped moving. She stared at her untouched food. "I dreamed," she said quietly. "I shouldn't have, but I did."

Four pairs of eyes turned to Chen.

She put down her fork with deliberate precision. "Hibernation anomalies are not uncommon. Neural suppression is not perfect. Occasionally, subjects report hypnagogic imagery during wake sequences." Her voice had the particular flatness that meant she was reciting from manual, not experience. "It will pass."

"Right, but..." Jordan hesitated. How to explain this? "Did anyone else... I mean, was it just random dream stuff, or was it... specific?"

"Define specific," Chen said.

Jordan frowned, trying to pull coherent images from the fog. "Like... being other people? Or being more than one person? Like... I don't know. Like hearing other voices? Like being—" They stopped. The word that came to mind was "we," which made no sense.

Volkov had gone very still. "Being not alone," he said. "Da. That."

"I heard my mother," Amara said. Her voice had dropped to barely above whisper. "But not... not her voice exactly. Her and other voices. Layered. Like a transmission with multiple channels. She said..." She paused. "She said to let go. To stop fighting. That we had been waiting."

The temperature in the mess hall had not changed, but Jordan felt cold anyway.

"Mine wasn't voices," Reeves said. He had adopted his lecturer tone—the one he used when uncomfortable with a topic but unwilling to show it. "More like... sensations? Being part of something larger. Vast. Interconnected. Rather like describing the sensation of drowning, except pleasant. Which is disturbing for entirely different reasons."

Chen's jaw had tightened. "This is normal hibernation side effects. Neural misfiring during wake sequences. False pattern recognition. The brain attempting to construct narrative from random neural activity."

"Commander." Volkov leaned forward. "With respect. Does not feel random."

"Feelings are not data, Volkov."

"Da. But five people, same feelings? That is data."

Chen opened her mouth. Closed it. Her command presence wavered for just a moment, and Jordan caught a glimpse of something underneath—uncertainty, maybe. Or fear carefully controlled.

"It's probably nothing," Jordan said quickly, trying to pull the tension back. They flashed what they hoped was an encouraging smile. "Shared experience, right? We all went through the same hibernation protocol. Makes sense we'd have similar neurological responses. Humans are pattern-seeking machines. We're wired to find connections."

"Right," Amara said. She did not sound convinced. "Pattern-seeking."

"Still," Reeves said, "might be worth having Osei run neurological scans. Rule out any actual neural damage. Due diligence and all that."

Amara nodded. "I was planning to anyway. Full medical workup for everyone. Standard post-hibernation protocol."

"Good." Chen picked up her fork again. Subject closed by command decision. "We will proceed with standard protocols. Volkov, I want your engineering report in two hours. Kim, orbital approach calculations. Osei, medical screenings. Reeves, preliminary salvage parameters. We are professionals. We have work to do."

"Aye, Commander," four voices, nearly synchronized again.

Chen's eyes flickered—just for a moment. She had noticed it too.

The meal continued in relative silence. Jordan tried for conversation a few more times—asking Volkov about the fusion core, asking Reeves about Tantalus V's original colony specs. Small talk. Normal crew interaction. The words came out right, but the atmosphere remained heavy, like air before a storm.

Jordan watched the others eat. Volkov, methodical. Reeves, fastidious. Chen, efficient.

And Amara, who had still not taken a single bite.

"You should eat," Jordan said gently.

Amara looked down at her plate like she had forgotten it existed. "Right. Yes. I should."

She picked up her fork. Raised a bite of reconstituted eggs to her mouth. Chewed.

Her face did not change expression, but something in her eyes went flat.

She swallowed. Took another bite. Mechanical. Forcing it down.

"You good?" Jordan asked.

"Fine," Amara said. "Just not very hungry."

It was probably true. Hibernation did strange things to appetite. Jordan had felt slightly nauseous themselves earlier. Nothing abnormal.

So why did they feel like they had just watched something important happen and completely missed what it was?

Across the table, Reeves was watching Amara too. His eyes had narrowed slightly—academic interest, maybe. Or concern.

Chen stood. "Two hours. I want preliminary reports on my desk." She did not wait for acknowledgment, just turned and left the mess hall with military precision.

The door sealed behind her with a hydraulic hiss.

For several seconds, no one spoke.

Then Volkov laughed—short, sharp, humorless. "Well. That went well."

"Could be worse," Jordan offered. "Could be a lot worse."

"Could it?" Reeves asked.

No one had an answer for that.

They finished their meal in silence. Or tried to. Jordan managed to clear their plate. Volkov finished his second helping. Reeves made it through half the protein bar. Amara sat with food untouched, staring at the table, her lips pressed thin.

When Jordan left the mess hall twenty minutes later, they glanced back. Amara was still sitting there. Still not eating.

Still forcing herself to swallow food that tasted, Jordan suddenly realized, like absolutely nothing at all.

Or worse than nothing.

They almost went back. Almost asked if she needed help.

But Chen had given orders. Two hours for reports. Work to do.

Jordan turned away and headed for the bridge.

Behind them, Amara sat alone in the mess hall, surrounded by food she could no longer taste, listening to voices that should not exist, remembering dreams that should not have happened.

The lights hummed overhead. The ship's life support cycled air that smelled faintly metallic.

Everything was fine.

Probably.

---------------------------

## Beat 3: Individual Losses Discovered

### Amara - Med Bay, Six Hours Post-Wake

The protein bar tasted like battery acid.

Amara forced herself to chew, mechanical movements, swallow, repeat. Her stomach lurched. She put the bar down and reached for water instead. The water tasted metallic, like licking rust. She drank it anyway because dehydration after hibernation was a documented medical risk and she was a medical professional who followed protocols.

The nausea peaked, settled slightly. Not improved. Just tolerable.

She sat at the med bay workstation, medical scanner results illuminating the screen before her. Her results. Vitals nominal. Hydration slightly low but recovering. Blood chemistry within acceptable parameters. Neural scan showed minor inflammation consistent with post-hibernation recovery.

Everything looked normal.

So why did everything taste like poison?

Subject exhibits taste aversion beyond standard post-hibernation parameters. Duration: six hours. Severity: significant. All food items register as metallic or bitter despite variation in nutritional composition.

No. Not "subject." You are Amara. This is happening to you.

She tried another bite of the protein bar. Gagged. Forced it down. Took twenty seconds to recover.

Her medical training offered explanations: Neural suppression side effects. Temporary dysgeusia. Zinc deficiency. Damaged taste receptors from the hibernation process. All temporary. All resolvable within forty-eight hours.

Except her blood work showed no zinc deficiency. No vitamin depletion. No physiological markers for taste receptor damage.

Just food that tasted wrong. Water that tasted like metal. Even her own saliva carried a bitter, chemical aftertaste.

Amara pulled up the medical database, searched: "post-hibernation taste aversion." Found seventeen documented cases over thirty years of commercial hibernation use. Resolution time: twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Recommended treatment: hydration, nutritional supplementation, patience.

Forty-eight hours. She could manage forty-eight hours. She had gone longer without food during her residency. This was temporary. Explicable. Normal.

She took another bite. Chewed. Swallowed.

Her body rejected it ten seconds later. She barely made it to the med bay sink before vomiting—sharp, violent heaving that left her shaking.

When she finished, she rinsed her mouth. The water tasted like rust and old batteries.

Behind her, the med bay door hissed open. "Osei, you in here? I need—oh." Jordan stopped. "You okay?"

Amara straightened, wiped her mouth, turned with clinical composure. "Fine. Just a bit of post-hibernation nausea. Normal."

Jordan's eyes were kind and too perceptive. "You sure? You look—"

"I am fine." Sharper than intended. Amara moderated her tone. "I appreciate your concern, but I am managing my own medical needs. Was there something you needed?"

"Right. Yeah. Commander wants pre-flight medical clearance. For the approach to Tantalus V."

"Of course." Amara pulled up Jordan's file. Ran the scan. Vitals nominal. Everything nominal.

Except Jordan stood too close. Just half a step inside normal professional distance. Not threatening. Just... present. Like they wanted to be closer. Like distance was uncomfortable.

Stop it. You are reading into things. Post-hibernation paranoia.

"You are cleared for duty," Amara said. "Maintain hydration. Report any unusual symptoms."

"Will do." Jordan hesitated at the door. "Seriously though. If you need anything—"

"I will report any concerning symptoms through proper medical channels. Thank you, Jordan."

Jordan left. The door sealed.

Amara sat alone in the med bay, surrounded by equipment that said she was fine, drinking water that tasted like rust, knowing with bone-deep certainty that something was profoundly, irreversibly wrong.

She picked up the protein bar. Took another bite.

It tasted like death.

She swallowed it anyway.

---------------------------

### Volkov - Engineering Bay, Eight Hours Post-Wake

The coupling was loose. Simple problem. Fifteen-minute fix. Volkov had performed this particular repair approximately two hundred times over fifteen years. He could do it in his sleep.

Except his hands would not cooperate.

He stood in front of the plasma conduit access panel, holding the calibration tool, staring at the three-dimensional schematic on his tablet, and his brain refused to translate the image into actionable movement.

The schematic showed the coupling at junction 7-B. He knew it was junction 7-B. He could read the label. But when he tried to visualize the physical location—tried to map the 2D schematic onto the 3D reality of the engineering bay—nothing clicked. The spatial relationship refused to resolve.

"Blyat," he muttered.

He turned away from the tablet. Looked at the actual conduit. Traced it with his eyes. Port side wall, third access panel, junction should be... there. Yes. There.

He opened the panel. The coupling was exactly where it should be. Of course it was. Engineering layouts were standardized. He had worked on Benson-class vessels before. This was routine.

He reached for the coupling with the calibration tool.

His hand stopped six centimeters to the left.

Volkov stared at his own hand. Not tremor. Not muscle spasm. Just... wrong trajectory. Like the distance between his eyes and his hands had become negotiable. Like his proprioception had been replaced with approximate guessing.

He tried again. Slower. Focusing. Watching his hand move through space.

Missed by four centimeters.

Third attempt. Second-guessing every movement. Over-correcting. Finally made contact. But his usual fine motor control was gone. The calibration took three minutes instead of thirty seconds.

The coupling tightened. Sealed. He ran a diagnostic. Green. Functional.

Fifteen-minute job. Elapsed time: forty-five minutes.

Volkov sat down heavily on the deck plating.

This used to be easy. Everything used to be easy. He could see a schematic and know, immediately, how it translated to physical reality. Could reach for a component without looking and find it exactly where his hand expected. Could visualize complex mechanical systems in three dimensions without conscious effort.

Now it felt like working through thick glass. Like his brain and his body were on opposite sides of a barrier, communicating through approximation and guess work.

Temporary. Had to be temporary. Neural pathways disrupted by hibernation. Would re-establish within days. He had read the literature. This happened. Rarely, but it happened.

He pulled up the next task on his maintenance list: reactor coolant flow calibration. Another routine job. Thirty-minute estimate.

He stared at the schematic. The three-dimensional cooling system layout sat flat on the screen, refusing to resolve into actionable understanding.

One hour later, he was still staring.

The phantom limb of cognition—aching absence of something that used to be there, something fundamental, now gone.

---------------------------

### Chen - Personal Quarters, Ten Hours Post-Wake

The photo showed a boy, approximately ten years old, dark hair, slight smile, wearing a Helios Academy uniform. Chen held it in both hands, studying the image with tactical precision.

She felt nothing.

Not recognition. Not affection. Not even curiosity. Just clinical observation of visual data: one child, identity unknown, photographed in standard school environment.

She turned the photo over. Her own handwriting: "Liam. Age 10. Your son. Helios Academy, Mars Campus. You were proud of him."

"Were proud." Past tense. Implying current state different from past state.

Chen set the photo down, picked up her personal tablet, opened her private notes. More of her own handwriting. Lists. Details. Memories transcribed in precise language.

"Liam's favorite food: synthesized chocolate. He called it 'fake-olate' and laughed."

She tried to hear the laughter. Nothing.

"He built model ships from recycled components. Showed you each one with pride."

She tried to remember the pride. The boy's face as he showed her his creations. Nothing.

"He cried when you left for this mission. You promised to bring him something from Tantalus V."

She tried to feel regret. Guilt. Love.

Nothing.

You are Commander Lian Chen. You have a son. His name is Liam. He is ten years old. He attends Helios Academy. You love him. You must love him. The evidence is documented.

But the emotional content was gone. Excised. Like someone had performed surgery on her memory, leaving the facts intact while removing everything that made them matter.

She opened another file. Photo of a woman, mid-forties, kind eyes, slight smile. Caption: "Elena. Your partner. Together eight years. She has chronic pain condition. Expensive medication. This is why you take the contracts."

The woman was beautiful. Chen could observe that objectively. But she felt no warmth. No longing. No concern for the chronic pain condition.

Just data. Just facts. Just names attached to faces she should recognize and did not.

She read through more notes. Memories of Liam as a toddler. His first words. First steps. The way he pronounced her name. The games they played. Holidays. Birthdays. Eight years of documented affection.

All hollow. All archaeological artifacts of emotions she no longer possessed.

This is neurological damage. Emotional memory stored in hippocampus and amygdala. Hibernation-induced trauma. Temporary. Must be temporary.

But what if it was not?

Chen sat in her quarters, holding a photo of a child she knew was her son, reading notes about a life she knew was hers, feeling nothing but the cold efficiency of command protocol and the growing certainty that something fundamental had been stolen from her during six months of frozen dark.

She should feel devastated. She should feel horror. She should feel something.

The absence of feeling was its own kind of horror.

She set the photo face-down on her desk and returned to work. Mission protocols. Salvage parameters. Orbital approach calculations.

The work felt clear. Simple. Purposeful.

The photo of her son lay face-down, a stranger's face she could no longer remember loving.

---------------------------

### Jordan - Bridge, Eleven Hours Post-Wake

Jordan ran the calculations three times before they realized they had been doing the same equation for fifteen minutes.

Not that the calculations were hard. Just... foggy. Like thinking through syrup. Like their usual quick mental math had slowed to manual processing, each step requiring conscious effort instead of automatic response.

Orbital approach to Tantalus V. Standard calculations. They had done harder approaches during training. This should be routine.

They pulled up the nav computer's suggested trajectory. Checked it against manual calculations. Everything matched. Green across the board.

Good. Fine. Functional.

So why did they keep forgetting what they had been thinking about three seconds ago?

Jordan shook their head, trying to clear the fog. Post-hibernation stuff. Totally normal. Give it another day or two and everything would sharpen back up.

They checked the comm system. No messages from the colony. Not surprising—forty years silent, no reason to expect communication now. The distress beacon still pulsed its automated rhythm, steady as a heartbeat.

Were they supposed to respond to it? They could not remember. Probably not. Just monitor it. Chen would have orders if response was required.

Chen. Right. They needed to file the approach calculations with Chen.

Jordan pulled up the command interface, started to compile the report, then stopped.

Had they already done this? The screen looked familiar. But also not. Like déjà vu but inverted—things they should remember feeling unknown, things they had never seen feeling familiar.

Stop it. You are fine. Just tired. Just disoriented.

They finished the report, flagged it for Chen's review, then sat back in the pilot's chair and stared out the bridge viewport.

Tantalus V hung in the distance, small and dark, barely visible against the star field. They would reach orbital insertion in six hours. Land in eight. Mission begins in ten.

Should feel significant. Should feel like accomplishment—six months' journey almost complete.

Mostly Jordan just felt present. Not worried. Not excited. Just... here. Which was better than how the others seemed to be handling things.

Chen, wound tight enough to snap. Volkov, muttering about spatial calculations. Amara, forcing down food that clearly made her sick. Reeves, watching everyone with academic detachment that bordered on calculating.

Jordan was fine. Compared to them, totally fine.

Except for the part where they kept losing their train of thought mid-sentence.

Except for the part where their usually sharp memory felt like worn-out insulation.

Except for the part where distance felt negotiable, like they were both inside their body and slightly outside it, observing themselves from half a step to the left.

But that was probably nothing.

Right?

"Bridge, this is Chen. Status report on approach calculations."

Jordan pulled up the file they had just completed. Or had they? The timestamp said twenty minutes ago. They had lost time somewhere.

"Calculations complete, Commander. Orbital insertion in six hours, landing in eight. All systems nominal."

"Acknowledged. Good work, Kim."

The comm clicked off.

Jordan sat alone on the bridge, watching Tantalus V grow slowly larger, and tried to remember why they had wanted to become a pilot in the first place.

The reason was there, somewhere in their memory. Saving money for parents. Mars relocation. Something important.

It just felt very far away. Like it had happened to someone else.

Which was fine.

Probably fine.

They turned back to the console and tried to remember what they had been doing before the comm interruption.

---------------------------

### Reeves - Cargo Bay, Twelve Hours Post-Wake

Reeves stood among the salvage equipment, running inventory, calculating optimal extraction parameters, and quietly cataloging the precise ways his colleagues were falling apart.

Osei: not eating. Visible weight loss already. Medical training suggested acute awareness of her condition, which made continued denial interesting. Psychological defense mechanism or something more concerning?

Volkov: took three times longer than usual on simple repairs. Spatial reasoning compromised. He compensated with verbal problem-solving, talking himself through processes that used to be automatic.

Chen: emotional affect flattened. Still functional, still commanding, but something crucial was missing behind the eyes. Autopilot leadership with no fuel behind it.

Kim: Memory gaps. Time loss. Attention drift. Compensated with optimism and deflection. Most dangerous kind of cognitive decline—the kind the subject did not notice.

And himself?

Reeves paused in his inventory, turned his attention inward with clinical precision.

Physical: Functional. Slight muscle weakness, within normal post-hibernation parameters.

Cognitive: Functional. No obvious processing deficits. Memory intact. Spatial reasoning intact. Emotional regulation normal.

Psychological: Vague unease. Sense of wrongness without specific referent. Dreams he should not have had. Sensations of presence without object.

Explicable. Rationalize. Neural static. Would resolve.

Except.

Reeves pulled out his personal tablet, opened his private notes. He had been documenting salvage sites for eight years. Each entry meticulously cataloged: site parameters, extraction yields, crew survival rates, personal observations.

He opened the most recent entry, from three months before this mission. Read his own notes about the previous salvage site. Factual. Detailed. Written in his characteristic academic style.

Felt nothing.

Not disinterest. Not boredom. Just absence of personal connection to words he knew he had written.

He scrolled back further. Six months. One year. Two years. Each entry detailed. Each entry correct.

None of it felt personal. It was like reading someone else's research notes.

Except they were his notes. His observations. His experiences.

So why did they feel like archaeological artifacts?

Reeves closed the tablet, set it aside with precise care.

Fine. Temporary. Would resolve. He had work to do anyway.

He returned to the salvage inventory, running calculations. Tantalus V colony: One hundred forty-seven original colonists. Estimated equipment value. Estimated extraction time. Risk assessment parameters.

The numbers came easily. Always did. Math was clean. Predictable. Untouched by whatever neural disturbance had occurred during hibernation.

And if he felt slightly less concerned about crew survival than he should? If the prospect of salvage yields felt marginally more interesting than the prospect of getting five people home alive?

Well. That was probably just his natural mercenary tendencies. Nothing to do with the dreams. Nothing to do with the sense that individuality was negotiable. Nothing to do with the quiet voice in the back of his mind that insisted separation was temporary, that underneath the skin and skull they were still—

"Reeves, salvage assessment parameters. Where are they?"

Chen's voice on the comm, cutting through his thoughts.

"Uploading now, Commander. Preliminary yield estimates range between acceptable and quite promising, depending on structural integrity planetside."

"Understood. Continue analysis."

The comm clicked off.

Reeves returned to his calculations, surrounded by salvage equipment, quietly aware that something was profoundly wrong and equally aware that acknowledging it would accomplish nothing.

So he calculated. He documented. He prepared.

And in the back of his mind, underneath conscious thought, something vast and patient waited for him to stop pretending he did not know what was happening.

He ignored it with practiced academic detachment.

For now.

---------------------------

## Beat 4: Ship AI Report

Chen sat alone in her quarters, reviewing system logs. Standard post-wake protocol. Verify all systems during hibernation performed nominally. Document any anomalies. File reports.

The first seventeen logs were green. Fusion core maintained stability. Life support cycled correctly. Navigation remained on course. Hull integrity unchanged. Environmental controls nominal.

Then she opened the hibernation monitoring logs.

```
HERMES AI - HIBERNATION MONITOR LOG
Cycle 412 / Day 68 Outbound

ALERT: Crew Member 2 (Volkov, Dmitri) - neural activity anomaly
Duration: 2.3 hours
Pattern: Does not match baseline suppression profile
Observed: Theta wave activity elevated 340% above hibernation norm

Recommendation: Wake crew for medical assessment

ACTION: Override via Corporate Protocol 7-J
CONTINUE MISSION - FLAG FOR POST-WAKE ASSESSMENT
```

Chen read it twice. Neural activity during hibernation. Explicable. Occasional neural misfiring happened. Rare but documented. Protocol 7-J override was standard—you did not wake a crew mid-journey for minor anomalies. Continue mission, assess on arrival.

She scrolled to the next flagged entry.

```
HERMES AI - HIBERNATION MONITOR LOG
Cycle 849 / Day 127 Outbound

ALERT: Crew Member 4 (Kim, Jordan) - sustained neural activity spike
Duration: 6.1 hours continuous
Pattern: REM-like activity during suppression period
Observed: Simultaneous activity in memory consolidation and sensory processing centers

Recommendation: Emergency wake protocol for neurological assessment

ACTION: Override via Corporate Protocol 7-J
CONTINUE MISSION - FLAG FOR POST-WAKE ASSESSMENT
```

Six hours of brain activity. During suppression. That should not happen. Hibernation drugs specifically shut down higher brain functions. Dreams were impossible. The neural suppression was the entire point—keep the brain quiet, reduce metabolic load, minimize cognitive deterioration during long transit.

Chen's hands had gone cold.

She scrolled further.

```
HERMES AI - HIBERNATION MONITOR LOG
Cycle 1203 / Day 156 Outbound

CRITICAL ALERT: All crew members exhibiting identical neural anomaly
Synchronization pattern detected across 5 pods
Duration: Simultaneous 8.4-hour events
Pattern: Theta and gamma wave coherence at 94.7% correlation

CRITICAL NOTE: No physical stimulus detected
CRITICAL NOTE: Pods are isolated systems - neural crosslink impossible
CRITICAL NOTE: Mathematical probability of random synchronization: <0.0001%

Recommendation: IMMEDIATE CREW WAKE AND MISSION ABORT

ACTION: Override via Corporate Protocol 7-J
CONTINUE MISSION - FLAG FOR POST-WAKE ASSESSMENT
QUERY LOGGED: Unable to identify synchronization mechanism
```

Chen read the entry three times.

All five crew members. Identical brain activity. Synchronized. For eight hours. With no physical mechanism to explain it.

And the AI had recommended abort. The AI, which was programmed with conservative parameters, which flagged everything as precautionary protocol, had assessed the situation and determined they should wake the crew and turn around.

Corporate Protocol 7-J had overridden it.

She pulled up the protocol documentation. It took two minutes to find because it was buried in sub-appendix 47-C of the contractor operations manual.

"Protocol 7-J: Economic Continuation Override. In cases where medical or operational anomalies are flagged during transit, command authority may invoke economic necessity to continue mission operations if: (a) no immediate life-threatening conditions are detected, and (b) mission abort would result in financial loss exceeding actuarial crew replacement costs."

Translation: if waking the crew early would cost the company more money than potential crew death, continue mission.

Chen sat very still.

She scrolled to the most recent log. Thirteen hours ago. Just before wake sequence began.

```
HERMES AI - HIBERNATION MONITOR LOG
Cycle 1893 / Day 186 Outbound

Neural synchronization events now occurring every 12-hour cycle.
Coherence rate: 99.2%
All crew members exhibiting identical patterns.
Unauthorized system access attempts logged: 147 events
Source: Unknown
Target: Hibernation pod neural interface protocols

Physical status: All crew members nominal
Neural status: [ANOMALY - OUTSIDE DOCUMENTED PARAMETERS]
Psychological status: [ASSESSMENT REQUIRED POST-WAKE]

Recommendation: Comprehensive neurological and psychological evaluation upon wake
Secondary recommendation: Consider mission abort pending evaluation results

Wake sequence initiated per standard mission timeline.
Current status: All crew conscious, mobile, cleared med bay.

QUERY: If neural synchronization represents external influence,
       what is the mechanism of transmission?
QUERY: If unauthorized access originated from crew members,
       why during unconsciousness?
QUERY: At what point does "anomaly" become "compromise"?

Continuing standard monitoring protocols.
```

The last three lines made Chen's skin crawl. The AI asking questions it did not have programming to answer. The AI uncertain about the boundaries of its own assessment parameters.

And the phrase "external influence."

External from where? They were six months from Ganymede. Approaching Tantalus V. Nothing between them and—

Chen stopped.

Tantalus V. The colony. Silent for forty years. Beacon reactivated six months ago.

They had been in transit for six months.

The neural synchronization started day 68.

She pulled up the mission timeline, cross-referenced with HERMES logs. The synchronization events began exactly one week after they passed the midpoint of their journey. One week after they were closer to Tantalus V than to Ganymede.

One week after they entered whatever range made them... accessible.

You are being paranoid. There is no mechanism for external neural influence. This is neurological damage from the hibernation process. Shared environment, shared protocols, shared side effects.

But five people experiencing identical brain activity? Synchronized to 99.2% coherence? For weeks?

That was not malfunction. That was not coincidence.

That was pattern. That was coordination. That was something treating five separate people like nodes in a network.

Chen closed the logs. Sat in silence. Ran through tactical assessments.

Option one: Abort mission. Turn around. Six months back to Ganymede. Eighteen months' salary penalty for all crew. Liam's tuition unpaid. Elena's medication unfunded. Volkov's sister enters the same debt cycle. Amara drowns in loans. Jordan's parents stay in failing arcologies. Reeves' debts compound.

And they would be no better off. Whatever had happened during hibernation had already happened. Turning around did not undo it.

Option two: Continue mission. Land on Tantalus V. Complete assessment. Forty-eight hours planetside. Quick extraction. Six months home. Get paid. Get proper medical evaluation on Ganymede.

The damage was done. The only variable was whether they survived to collect payment.

Chen opened the comm system. "All crew, report to the bridge in fifteen minutes. Command briefing."

Fourteen minutes and thirty seconds later, five people stood on the bridge. Chen at the command station. Volkov near engineering consoles. Amara with medical tablet in hand. Jordan at navigation. Reeves reviewing salvage parameters.

Five separate people.

Chen activated the central display, brought up the HERMES logs. All of them. Unredacted.

"Before we begin final approach," Chen said, voice flat and professional, "there is information you need to see."

---------------------------

## Beat 5: The Economic Trap—Decision to Continue

The bridge was silent except for the low hum of life support and the occasional beep from navigation consoles. Four people read the hibernation logs displayed on the central screen. Chen watched their faces.

Volkov went pale. Amara's clinical composure cracked. Jordan's optimism drained away. Reeves' expression went carefully neutral.

"Blyat," Volkov said quietly. Then louder: "Blyat! Commander, this says—this says we were—" He stopped. Started again. "Ninety-nine percent neural synchronization. That is not malfunction. That is not... what is that?"

"I don't know," Chen said. The honesty felt dangerous.

"The dreams," Amara said. Her voice was barely above whisper. "The shared dreams. We were not imagining it. We were actually..." She looked at the others. "Connected?"

"No." Reeves spoke with academic precision, like if he could define the problem it would become manageable. "Not connected. Neural activity happened to align. Correlation is not causation. Shared environment, shared protocols, shared physiological response to hibernation stress."

"Ninety-nine point two percent correlation," Volkov said. "For weeks. Across five separate pods. That is not 'happened to align.'"

"Then what is it?" Reeves' voice had an edge now. "You want to propose telepathy? External neural manipulation? Some kind of science fiction nonsense?"

"I want to propose we turn around." Volkov looked at Chen. "Commander. Respectfully. We abort. We go home. This is beyond mission parameters. This is—we do not know what this is."

Chen had expected this. Had run the simulation in her head during the fifteen minutes before the briefing. Now she executed the prepared response.

"Show of hands," she said. "Who wants to abort the mission?"

Volkov's hand went up immediately. After three seconds, Amara raised hers as well, though her hand shook.

Jordan hesitated, glanced around, then slowly raised their hand. "I mean... if something happened to us during hibernation, shouldn't we get medical attention? Like, professional medical attention, not just Amara running scans in the med bay? No offense, Amara."

"None taken," Amara said. "You are correct. We need comprehensive neurological evaluation. Facilities we do not have on this ship."

Three hands raised. Chen looked at Reeves.

Reeves had not moved. "Before we vote," he said carefully, "perhaps we should discuss the full implications of aborting."

"The implications are we survive," Volkov said.

"The implications," Reeves continued, "are that we trigger the abort penalty clause. Eighteen months' base salary. Each." He pulled up the contract on his tablet, displayed it on the secondary screen. "Aborting mission before completion without documented life-threatening emergency constitutes breach of contract. Contractors liable for costs incurred."

The bridge went quiet.

"Neural anomalies are life-threatening," Amara said, but her voice had lost certainty.

"Are they?" Reeves asked. "We are all conscious. Mobile. Functional. No immediate medical crisis. The HERMES logs say 'anomaly,' not 'emergency.' Corporate Protocol 7-J determined conditions were not life-threatening enough to warrant early wake. A review board would likely agree."

"Convenient for the company," Jordan muttered.

"Quite," Reeves agreed. "But legally binding for us."

Chen watched the mathematics play out on her crew's faces. The same mathematics she had already run.

Volkov broke first. "Eighteen months. I cannot... my sister..." He sat down heavily. "I cannot afford that."

"None of us can," Amara said quietly. "That is the point. They structure the contracts to make abort financially impossible."

"Trap," Volkov said. "Economic trap. We are trapped."

"We could document the neural anomalies," Jordan offered. "Medical emergency. Override the penalty clause."

Reeves shook his head. "The logs show Corporate Protocol 7-J was invoked multiple times. The company has already determined this is not emergency-level. We would need to prove life-threatening conditions. Right now, we just have uncomfortable data and shared bad dreams."

"I cannot taste food," Amara said, and everyone turned to look at her. She had not mentioned it during the meal. "Everything tastes like metal and rust. I have lost three kilograms since waking. That is medical emergency."

"Temporary dysgeusia," Reeves said, not unkindly. "Documented post-hibernation side effect. Resolves within forty-eight hours according to your own medical database. A lawyer would argue it does not constitute life threat."

Amara looked like she wanted to argue. Could not.

Chen let the silence stretch. Let them reach the conclusion themselves. Sometimes command meant guiding people to unavoidable truths rather than imposing them.

"So what do we do?" Jordan asked finally. "Just... continue? Pretend nothing's wrong?"

"We complete the mission," Chen said. "Land on Tantalus V. Conduct salvage assessment. Forty-eight hours planetside, maximum. Document everything. Then six months back to Ganymede. Once we are home, we get proper medical evaluation. With the mission payment funding it."

"And if something happens planetside?" Volkov asked. "If whatever affected us during hibernation... continues?"

"Then we adapt," Chen said. "We maintain awareness. We watch each other. We proceed with caution. But we complete the mission."

"Because we cannot afford not to," Amara said bitterly.

"Yes." Chen did not soften it. "Because we cannot afford not to. I need the money for my son's education and my partner's medication. Volkov needs to keep his sister out of debt. Osei has student loans. Kim has family obligations. Reeves has his own financial situation." She looked at each of them in turn. "We are here because we needed the work. Aborting does not change that. It just means we incurred the expense for nothing."

"So we are trapped," Volkov repeated.

"We are professionals," Chen corrected. "With a job to do. Under unusual circumstances, yes. But the parameters remain clear. Forty-eight hours planetside. Assess and extract. Then home."

"Assuming we survive forty-eight hours," Reeves said quietly.

Everyone looked at him.

"I am not arguing against continuing," he clarified. "Simply noting that survival is not guaranteed. We are all aware something happened to us during hibernation. Something we do not understand. Proceeding despite unknown variables carries risk."

"Everything carries risk," Chen said. "That is why they pay us. Question is: do we take the risk with potential reward, or guarantee loss by aborting?"

Another silence. This one felt different. Heavier. Like watching people accept terms they could not negotiate.

Jordan spoke first. "I vote continue. For the record, I think this is a terrible idea. But I cannot afford to abort."

"Continue," Volkov said. "Under protest. Also terrible idea."

"Continue," Amara said. Her voice was flat. Clinical. The tone she used when documenting deaths. "I will maintain medical monitoring. Document all symptoms. If conditions deteriorate beyond acceptable parameters, I will recommend abort regardless of financial penalty."

"Agreed," Chen said. She looked at Reeves.

"Continue," Reeves said. "Though I suspect we all know this is a mistake." He smiled without humor. "But calculated mistakes are my specialty."

"Then we are decided." Chen closed the HERMES logs, brought up the mission timeline. "Kim, initiate final approach sequence. Orbital insertion in four hours. Landing in six. Volkov, I want the *Goliath* ready for rapid departure if needed. Osei, continue medical monitoring—everyone reports symptoms immediately, no matter how minor. Reeves, finalize salvage parameters. We go in, we assess, we extract, we leave. Forty-eight hours."

"Aye, Commander," four voices, synchronized again.

This time no one commented on it.

The crew dispersed to their stations. Within two minutes, the bridge was back to standard operations. Jordan running approach calculations. Chen reviewing landing site parameters. Everything normal. Everything professional.

Except Jordan's hands moved across the navigation console with slightly more fluidity than they should. Smooth. Practiced. Like the interface was more familiar than it had been six hours ago.

Except when Chen glanced at the crew, sometimes their heads tilted at the same angle. Same timing. Same subtle movement.

Except the low hum of the ship's systems seemed to carry a rhythm, and if Chen listened carefully—if she listened the way she had in the dreams—she could almost hear voices underneath.

Many voices. Or one voice. Or five voices speaking as one.

She pushed the thought away. Focused on work. On protocols. On the mission.

Tantalus V filled the viewport, growing larger by the hour. Dark planet. Dead colony. Forty years silent.

And six months ago, something there had woken up.

Chen did not let herself think about what it might have been calling to. Did not let herself wonder if the distress beacon had been invitation rather than cry for help.

They were committed now. Economic pressure had made the choice. The corporate trap had sprung. All that remained was to survive the next forty-eight hours and collect payment.

Simple. Professional. Survivable.

Probably.

Jordan began the landing sequence. Their smile, when they turned to confirm coordinates with Chen, was warm and genuine and exactly the same expression Reeves wore at the salvage console thirty meters away.

Chen pretended not to notice.

Work to do. Mission to complete. Forty-eight hours.

She could manage forty-eight hours.

She had to.
